=Creating Content Modules=

PHPApp depends on ModelQuery for its interaction with the database,
so this tutorial assumes that you already have your database schema
created, and have created the appropriate Model definitions for your
tables.  If you haven't done that yet, go ahead and run through the
[ModelQueryTutorial ModelQuery tutorial] before continuing on.  This
tutorial will be using the same example tables and models that we
first created there.

In order to create an intuitive administration interface, you will
need to group your model definitions into _modules_.  Modules are
a directory that contains a set of related models, along with
additional media and configuration directives to tell PHPApp how
to build an administration interface for them.

A module directory the following structure.  Let's create a
"Films" module to group the models we created in the
[ModelQueryTutorial ModelQuery tutorial].  The module
should have a unique name (we'll use "films"), which will
also be the directory name that contains the module.  Inside
the module directory are several important files and
directories:

 * films: The module root directory
   * module.php: Core module configuration _(required)_
   * models/: Database model definitions _(required)_
   * admin/: Admin interface configuration _(required)_
   * fields/: Custom fields used by models
   * templates/: Custom interface templates
     * fields/: Custom field form templates
   * media/: supporting media (images, etc)

Let's look at what each of these does.

==Module Files==

===module.php===

===models/===

===admin/===

===fields/===

===templates/===

===media/===
