=Creating a New PHPApp Project=

PHPApp includes a bare-bones example application, that includes
some basic modules like user and group administration.  If you're
creating a new application, the easiest way to get up and running
is to just copy this sample application.

The sample application is located in
[http://code.google.com/p/phpapp/source/browse/trunk#trunk%2Fphpapp%2Fexample phpapp/example]
in SVN.

==Directory Structure of the Sample Application==

{{{
example
 |- www         - The Apache public web site root.
 |- admin       - The Apache admin site root.
 |- apache      - Sample Apache configuration directives.
 |- config      - Sample PHPAPP config files.
 |- lib         - Application shared code.
 | \- modules   - The PHPAPP application modules.
 \- sql         - The database initialization SQL.
}}}

==Setting Up a New Application==

 # Copy all directory contents to a new location.  Be sure you do not copy the ".svn" directory entries.  Note that there are some hidden files in some directories (i.e. www/.htaccess).
 # Customize the module path to fit your application.  Ideally in a production app, they would be located somewhere like "lib/myappname/modules" instead of just "lib/modules".
 # Create a new MySQL database for your application.
 # Run the SQL script "sql/phpapp-example.sql" on your new database.
 # Configure "config/default.inc.php" to use your database settings.  You can also create a "local.inc.php" in the app root to override and configuration settings in your development environment.
 # If you moved your modules directory, update the "modules" configuration variable in "config/default.inc.php".  Make sure the path listed is accessible from PHP's include_path specified in the Apache environment.
 # Customize the Apache configuration (apache/phpapp-example.conf) to point to the correct directories, and add the new virtual host to your Apache installation.
 # Go to http://your-new-site.com/admin and login as "admin" / "password"

If the admin site comes up in your browser, your application is ready to
customize.  If you want to move right on to customizing the example app,
you can jump ahead to [PhpAppModelAdmin Configuring ModelAdmin Definitions].

Otherwise, let's take a look at what's going on inside the example app,
starting with [PHPAppModules creating some content modules].
